# Charter of Individual Rights

## Abstract

The Work Stream Governance, Rules & Regulations recommends that the Qiy Trust Principles that apply to Data Providers and/or Relying Parties be mirrored in a 'Charter of Individual Rights', which is to be a legal document. The document shall contain the general terms and conditions under which individuals are prepared to consent to the processing of their personal data. The provisions of the 'Charter of Individual Rights' must be respected by Relying Parties and Data Providers in their relations with Individuals to the extent that they process personal data of those Individuals and the protection offered by the 'Charter of Individual Rights' is higher than the protection offered under the terms and conditions or privacy statements of the Relying Parties and Data Providers themselves.
Access Providers can only provide Relying Parties and Data Providers access to a Qiy Trust Network on the basis of a written agreement by which those Relying Parties and/or Data Providers accept to be bound by the provisions contained in this 'Charter of Individual Rights' in all cases in which they process personal data of individuals that connect to them via a Qiy Trust Network.


# Rights of the individual in regard to the processing of personal data within a Qiy Trust Network ("Charter of Individual Rights")

The following Charter of Individual Rights defines the rights of the Individual in regard to the exchange of personal data via a Qiy Trust Network with other parties. In particular, this Charter of Individual Rights governs all forms of data exchange between an Individual and a party offering services within a Qiy Trust Network (i.e., Relying Parties or Data Providers).

## 1 My data
My data shall be used with my permission only. This includes data that I created myself or data available to me by the association with one or more third parties (so called Data Providers). covers data provided knowingly and actively by me as well as the personal data generated by my activity. This new right shall not be undermined and limited to the personal information directly communicated by me. It shall also include my personal data that the Data Provider obtained from third parties.

## 2 Consent
When I am asked to provide data for a particular online service, I will be clearly informed by the service provider on the purpose for which the data will be used now and in the future. The amount and nature of the requested data must be reasonable in relation to the purpose for which I am providing this data. Only when fully informed, I can decide to make (part of) my (validated and / or anonymous) data available. This may be data that I created myself or data given to me by the association with third parties (so called Data Providers). The information may be used only for the purpose for which I have provided my data.

## 3 Anonymity

I always have the ability to maintain my anonymity. I can also share validated data anonymously. In transactions where I cannot act anonymously, I have the choice to either provide identifying information or to abort the transaction. All relying parties and data providers of the Qiy Trust Network accept the basic premise of anonymity as described above. This is part of the contract with them.

## 4 Online tracking

Online tracking is not permitted without my prior permission. 

## 5 Removal of data

Whenever I wish, and on the condition that my data should not be preserved under existing law or regulation, my data is deleted upon my request. In all cases, data which are no longer required are to be removed after a period of 6 months.

## 6 Security Policy

Each Relying Party and / or Data Provider that uses my data or makes my data available has an adequate security policy implemented, according the requirements imposed by the Global Authority.

## 7 Privacy statement Relying Parties and Data Providers

Relying Parties and Data Providers accept that the Qiy Trust Principles take precedence over existing or future own privacy statements and that the provisions of these statements that are inconsistent with the Qiy Trust Network and this Charter will be considered void.

## 8 Complaints and disputes

### a. Complaints and disputes

In the event of a complaint or dispute, the first contact is the Relying Party or Data Provider. If this does not lead to a satisfactory solution, the complaint or dispute may be submitted to the Regional Scheme Authority (for now: Qiy Foundation). Each Relying Party and / or Data Provider has a clear section on its website where I can go with my complaints and disputes. 

### b. Disputes Committee

When the Regional Scheme Authority does not resolve the complaint or dispute to my satisfaction, the complaint or dispute may be submitted to the Disputes Committee.

